Introduction:

The wider our window, the fewer examples our model is going to see.

Working with Sequences:

Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs):

RNNs solve the variable length problem by representing an entire variable-length sequence to
representing a single event given what has come before. 

Two Key Ideas for the RNNs:
    - RNNs learn a compact hidden state that represents the past 
    - The input to an RNN is a concatenation of the orginal stateless input and the hidden state.

The Model will have one set of parameters, there is only one linear set of weights, one dense set of 
weights and one tanh set of weights. 

Backpropagation through Time: Updating each parameter using the average of all the partial 
derivatives of iterations. 

RNNs are powerful extractors. 

Dealing with Longer Sequences (LSTMs):

Converting from Python to Tensorflow Functions:
python: tf.keras.preprocessing.text.Tokenizer.texts_to_sequences()
Tensorflow Equivalent: tf.contrib.lookup.index_table_from_file()

python: tf.keras.preprocessing.sequence.pad_sequences()
Tensorflow: tf.pad() and tf.slice()

Reusable Embeddings:

Matrix Factorization is very complex and expensive. 

Encoder-Decoder Models:

Also known as sequence to Sequence Models. 

tf.nn.sampled_softmax++++++++_loss is used to find the probability out of one sentence from a
thousand sentences. 

The outputs of the encoder becomes the inputs of the first RNN cell of the decoder. 

Four Machine Learning Steps in the Pipeline in encoder-decoder model:
    - Emded
    - Encode
    - Attend
    - Predict 

With AutoML Translation, we would need to:
    - Prepare Train and Test Sets
    - Use Pre-built Model
    - Evaluate Results

Through Auto ML Translation:
    - Upload Translated Language Pairs
    - Train your Model
    - Evaluate 

Dialogflow is an en end-to-end developer platform for building natural and rich conversational
experience. It picks up the best answer from all possible answers through 
intent and entity classifications.

There are three components in Dialogflow:
    - intent: Action that the user wants to execute. They represent a mapping
    between what the user says and what action should be taken by a chatbot. They are the verbs
    in the conversation.
    - entity: Objects that the user would want to act upon. Nouns found through the conversation.
    - context: It helps the chatbot keep track (where the user is at the course of the conversation). 

Dialogflow uses training phrases as examples for a AI platform model to match user's queries 
to the correct intent. The AI platform model checks the query against every intent in the agent,
gives every intent a score, and the higest scoring intent is matched. If the highest scoring intent
has a very low score, the fallback intent is matched. 

